I want to welcome in our Bloomberg
television and radio audiences to the
special episode of Bloomberg markets
seated here with an exclusive interview
with chair and CEO of Duane family
office billionaire investor Stanley dren
Miller now Stan in 2021 you had written
an opinion paper in the Wall Street
Journal that said the FED is playing
with fire and a couple weeks ago you
wrote to me and you said that you hope
that the FED is not making the same
mistake that it had made in 2021 the
mistake of being trapped by forward
guidance what's at stake here why are
you so
concerned thanks chal it's nice to be
here um in
2021 I think the FED did a great job
when we were facing a black hole in Co
in
2020 uh they took some very aggressive
actions one of those actions was forward
guidance where they to try and settle
markets guided ahead to basically a zero
interest trade policy I think it's for
was frankly for 3 years um we were all
fooled by Co I was too when when it
first happened we're wondering you know
are we sinking into a black hole but it
was pretty obvious I'd say a month or
two after vaccine confirmation which was
the fall of 20 that we weren't going
into black hole unemployment which I
think had been around 14% started to
drop precipitously the economy came back
um we wrote the article in the spring of
21 because at this point we felt we were
like booming and it was it was
everywhere in the economy and the
companies we talked to and unemployment
rate everywhere and the FED wasn't
adjusting so they were buying I think
120 billion a month at Securities it
might have been down to 95 a month by
that time period and rates were still
zero and I think had they had a clean
slate they would have never been buying
bonds to that degree with what was going
on in the economy but they were trapped
in my opinion by forward guidance it's
pretty incredible from from the point we
wrote the article when it was so obvious
that we even wrote about it um it was 13
months from when inflation went through
2% to when they finally raised rates
they also bought two trillion in bonds
during that period um
so I guess the reason I analogize it it
today and it it's quite different I had
a lot of confidence then that they were
wrong on inflation the money supply was
growing at 40% as I said the economy was
booming this one's much more
nuanced however um just look at the
asymmetry here back then you go 13
months with inflation through the target
goes up to 82% and you still going
another the 3 months and your keeping
rates is zero and you're buying bonds
like crazy and then you um when you
finally move you move 25 basis points
and your rationale is we need to see the
whites of inflation's eyes and you're
saying this when it's three or four or
5% okay today um we're still quite a bit
above Target depending on which measure
you use somewhere between two and a half
and three and a
quar uh the economy they've come up with
this I guess theory that monetary policy
is restrictive because of real inflation
rates but I don't really go by Theory
I'm a market animal frankly we' found
over the years that markets are better
predictors than uh professors and when I
look at look at the landscape equities
at a record high gold at a record high
GDP above Trend credit tight um Bank
earnings and forecasts look good um we
don't see any restriction whatsoever
crypto going crazy you name it so all of
a sudden the crowd that said they wanted
to uh see the whites of inflation's eyes
and they wanted to be data dependent as
opposed to forward-looking are now
cutting 50 basis points not a quarter
which is what they started of and we're
not even to Target yet and this is all
on the
theory that monetary policy is
restrictive so what I would say is this
I don't have the conviction I had in 21
that we wrote that article that the FED
is going to be wrong but on a risk
reward basis I just doesn't I don't
think it makes any sense at all to to
lay out the cards they've laid out and
commit themselves through forward
guidance once again and what I what I
was trying to say when I was
saying um it reminds me of 21 is I just
hope if the data don't go with them and
they certainly haven't since since they
sorted this narrative they adjust this
time and they're not trapped by the
forward Guidance the way they were in 21
listen does this mean that you thought
50 basis points was an absolute mistake
and do you think that there is a risk of
an inflationary spike in the way we saw
in the
1970s yeah do you have the chart we
talked about earlier let's see if we can
pull that up there's certainly one that
investors have been looking at and while
you so even if we don't have the chart
so in the 1970s inflation came down from
a remarkably similar level to where it
was in 21 I think 21 peaked at 9 I think
it was 8 back in the 70s they came down
to three the Fed was easing because they
they had the 75 recession so the FED
started easing and inflation went right
back up to I think it peaked at a 12%
when vulker came in and smashed it I'm
not predicting that but when you're
easing into a melt up in financial
markets and we have the fiscal policy we
have going forward it's certainly a risk
and I just I think it's a mistake not to
be taking that risk into account I don't
really understand the rush of 50 basis
points and then I think that markets
have priced in a 97% cut uh at the next
meeting that's all through fed guidance
it's funny my my friend Jim Grant who's
one of my favorite writers said they're
not really data dependent they're
forward guidance dependent
and that's what they're showing again
and look he might be right and I hope he
is right but it's a big risk because if
in fact they're wrong and inflation
takes off because monetary policy is in
fact not restrictive and we have fiscal
expansion going on and they have to
tighten again I think it could be a it
could be a nightmare for markets and
maybe even for the independence of the
fed you can't you can't make multiple
mistakes that that that that would have
been but I'm not predicting it I'm just
saying why did they go 50 and why do
they need this forward guidance you know
I'm glad you brought up the FED
Independence I wanted your view on this
are you concerned about the independence
in the scenario of a Donald Trump win in
an interview just a day ago with
Bloomberg editor-in Chief John melway he
said that the job at the FED is to show
up in the office once a month and say
let's flip a coin uh on the other hand
your longtime colleague Scott bessent
has been informally advising Trump and
floated the idea of a shadow Fed chair
how compromised is fed Independence at
this
juncture well I think as Shadow fed and
this kind of talk is a horrible idea and
irresponsible however I think where
Trump to be elected the institution will
hold um I think a bigger threat to the
FED would would be major major mistakes
by the FED I think the FED is obsessed
with soft Landings and fine tuning to me
that's not the real job the real job is
to avoid the kind of problems we had
with a great financial crisis which in
my opinion were because the Fed was too
easy going into them create a housing
bubble and then obviously after Co not
the initial actions but sticking with it
for a year and a half for two years
buying bonds uh with the money supply
exploding to me um they've got to stop
the fine-tuning and start looking at the
bigger
picture and committing yourselves now
and then if they stick to for guidance
and inflation starts going up again that
could lead to a hard Landing not a soft
Landing speaking of uh the the future of
course another big uncertainty ahead
Beyond Federal Reserve policies is the
November election I'm wondering what the
druck and Miller Playbook is around this
election cycle and what you think the
most likely scenario is and how you set
up for
it well it's an evolving
situation I if you would ask me this 12
days ago I would have said I don't have
a clue it's in a total cup I still don't
have conviction who's going to win on
the election but as I said earlier I
like market indicators for the economy
and for financial restrictiveness I also
like them for elections I remember how
right the market was on Ronald Reagan in
1980 despite what the pundits were
saying and I must say in the last 12
days the market and the inside of the
market um is very very convinced Trump
is going to win you can see it in the
bank stocks you can see it in crypto you
can even see it in djt his social media
company but throughout the whole I would
say the industries that are
deregulated if we had deregulations will
benefit from Trump or outperform the
others
so if you put a gun to my head and than
God there's not one in my head so this
really doesn't matter I would say that
um I I would have to guess Trump is the
favorite to win the election now but who
knows what these polls even mean no one
even responds to them anymore but um
that's what we're looking at I think the
Delta
between let's say four
outcomes blue sweep red
sweep uh Trump with a with a blue branch
of Congress uh Harris with a red branch
of
Congress um first of all I I think the
blue sleep sweep is extremely unlikely
even if Harris wins the presidency uh
looking at state-by-state polls it it
looks like the Republicans are going to
win the Senate um were you get a blue
sweep I think just the math of
taxes um business confidence lack of an
animal spirits um no change in the
regulation front in investors Minds you
could get a you you would have a rough
time for equities I would think for 3 to
6 months I think this would probably
translate in the economy because Equity
ownership is 25% of financial assets at
an all-time high that was 15% just not
that long ago so that's a blue sweep but
the good news or the bad news depending
on how you view life is I think it's
highly unlikely so that Playbook is
probably going to be irrelevant so what
about a red sweep a red sweep which I
think is probably more likely than a
trump presidency with a um with a blue
Congress because personally I think
anybody that votes for Trump is probably
not going to switch their change their
ballot um for a democrat in Congress a
red sweep I think you get animal spirits
in the business Community you get
deregulation
um and there might be some sort of um
uplift relative to where they were in in
terms of the business community so I
think the economy could be potentially
stronger for 3 to six months um my fear
would be because of those reasons and
because I think Bon yields already don't
reflect a proper economic Outlook you
would probably get a bad response in the
fixed income markets which could then SN
out the equity rally but any of you we
have at Duane family office that where
we're worried about bonds we're not
playing it through the stock market
we're playing it through the bond market
if if you want to go after the cause
rather than the symptoms are still look
like there's stocks and things to do I
also think under a red sweep the FED for
the reasons I just salicin and maybe
because of past relationships would be
much more hawkish than they would be
under Harris
Administration so I think that would all
be in our Playbook and the responses to
it under a Harris
Administration with the Republican
Congress probably not a lot of change
from the landscape we currently have in
terms of trying to figure out what's
going to happen I want to remind our
viewers if you're just tuning in right
now I'm standing by with Stanley dra
Miller for our Bloomberg television and
radio offices of course he leads the
Duane family office
and you were talking through each
scenario here but what about your
personal views here in a recent
conference you had mentioned that you
wouldn't vote for either kamla Harris or
Donald Trump which concerns you
more
um which concerns me more I haven't I
like um Brett Stevens's line in the New
York Times I haven't decided who I'm
going to vote against um I can't see my
voting self voting for either one of
them so it really doesn't matter who
concerns you are and I certainly will
never would never support either one of
them I just think um they're actually
unified on some things like industrial
policy both of them think apparently the
government should have a major role in
allocating Capital which I find frankly
Chell bizarre when I think back 10 or 15
years I'm I'm a I'm a reader of Tom
Freedman and quite a quite a good writer
and he was constantly pointing out how
the Chinese model was potentially
superior to the US model talking about
how nice their airports were and their
roads and how they could Target certain
industries well my long capitalist
suspicions have been confirmed and
China's been as we all know a disaster
with that model but somehow both parties
Republican and Democrats have adopted
industrial policy kind of throwing free
market Reagan capitalism to the side so
the
policies in terms of that I find equally
bad I find her policies much worse in
terms of anti bigness anti Business and
Regulation but frankly I I grew up in
America with a certain model of a
President George Washington Thomas
Jefferson um Ronald Reagan was one in my
lifetime
where there was a certain dignity and
behavior in the office and I don't judge
anyone who wants to vote for for Trump
but for me um it's just a red line so
I'll probably write in someone when I go
to the polls when you think about the
policies Donald Trump has put forward a
day ago he said to Bloomberg that tariff
is the most beautiful word in the
dictionary he's negated the idea that
many economists believe that this could
have many punitive impacts on the
American Consumer how do you see
it well I don't like tariffs I'm a I
just said I'm a free market capitalist
the only thing I'll say about Trump is
is a bit of a blow hard so I don't know
whether he's
negotiating um with with uh our foreign
adves and frankly with our foreign
Partners um I don't think it'll be the
end of the world but I I am not in favor
of tariffs I don't like them at all you
know it's interesting by the way uh the
Biden Administration kept all his
tariffs so it's not like I'm a fan of
their tariff policy either what about
taxation at the end of the day you have
been very very critical for many years
about the US debt load the fiscal
situation and there are analyses that
say both candidates would increase the
federal debt load the committee for a
responsible federal budget say Trump
more than the Harris Administration
would
at the end of the day can Congress get
away with extending the tax cuts from
the Trump era or is there another way to
really close the
gap look in in my world the less taxes
the better but we live in a world that I
hope still includes
compromise and if there's some sort of
agreement for spending cuts I could
definitely tolerate tax increases of
balance them I will say one thing I
don't I don't really like the media
narrative which
Compares fiscal irresponsibility with
tax cuts and fiscal irresponsibility
with spending and again you're right I'm
a fiscal Hawk I'm a lot worried about
more worried
about this and the effect four or five
years out than whether we have a soft
landing and our economy grows at 1.2 or
two this is big stuff we're talking
about but tax cuts are accompanied by an
addition to the Capital
stock spending is a shrinking in the
Capital stock replaced by government
spending so of the
two um the two sends tax cuts are leas
but personally if I was in government
you can't just do tax cuts if you don't
get the spending cuts and it was Trump
to me that took entitlements off the
table in
2016 and that's where the money is so I
give him an F on fiscal responsibility
also so want to switch gears here
because we only have a little bit of
time left with you I want to talk about
the market and I want to talk about how
you're looking at certain Wagers that
you've put on a while ago we spoke about
Nvidia and you had said that it would
some be something that you held for
years and ever since then you held it
for a while but more recently you've
been selling it off how much do you have
left of it and why have you been selling
can you see yourself getting back into
it
again I've made so many mistakes in my
investment career one of them was I sold
all my
Nvidia um probably in somewhere between
800 and 950 I think it's, 1300 on that
stock now you ow none today I ow none
and I I ow none the last 400 points it
was a big mistake uh in terms of AI and
by the way when I when I saw you at that
conference which was 18 months ago I
fully expected
to own it for years but I think it was
300 in change and um as I also said at a
media interview I'm not Warren Buffett
so I thought I thought I was going but
what changed is it tripled in a year and
I I thought the valuation was rich we
are big term long-term Believers in Ai
and there's still many ways we're
playing AI particularly the
infrastructure that's been built out to
support the power needed uh and yes I
think Nvidia is a wonderful company and
where the price to come down we get
involved again but right now I'm licking
my wounds from a bad sale there you know
the other question I have to ask you
really quickly we don't have a lot of
time but you were saying that you
express a lot of your views through the
bond market the 10-year hit 4.1% again
recently do you think it goes much
higher and where do you think it ends
next year would you go very short at
this
rate I don't know what very short means
um we shorted bonds the day the FED cut
50 cuz we thought it was a mistake um we
still have that position it's not so
much um I have a view on where it's
going to go short term what I what I do
believe if if pal ends up being wrong
here and inflation re accelerates next
year bonds could go up a lot a lot of
basis points hundreds whereas if he's
right you might lose 25 or 30 basis
points short the Golden Rule I've always
had is is the 10 years should trade
around where nominal GDP is which is 5 a
half% so the risk reward to me is being
short bonds